Hello, I am Balaam Van der Volt and I am now going to do a little tutorial on the
program the digital audio editor or DAW. I made a pre-recording of the
proverb that says duty comes before pleasure. Saying the tutorial will change
this philosophy and will change that audio file to say you know pleasure comes
before duty. In the process we will be using most of the keys available.
Okay, so this is what I'm now done is I loaded this into DAW and it played us the file. So what I'm
going to do now is I'm going to go to the start of the file and I'm going to mark a block containing
the word duty. Press the five or begin block. Now I'm going to play it and try and stop right
after duty. Okay, now I've got duty. Tells us where the block ends and now I am going to play this block
using F7. Okay, just to verify that the block is correct. Now I'm going to write out this block
into the file called block1.WARP. Okay, now it's busy writing. Okay, it wrote out the block.
Now I'm going to remove this block from our original file and then it would just say comes before pleasure.
Okay, it's removed the block. I'm going to start and play it again. Obviously when it's a long file
you just don't go to start, you go fast rewind or whatever. Okay, right. So now we need to
write out or mark out the second block which is the word pleasure and write that out. I can now
check here. I'm at 1.9. I can probably jump to about 1.3 using J. It says jump to. Just in case it
might just be on the right spot I'm pressing the begin block and now I'm going to play.
Okay, it wasn't at the right spot. I'm just going to check again. So probably at 1.
Jump to 1. Begin block. Okay, so I pressed both to begin and after the word has been spoken I pressed
the end block. I'm going to play it now to see. I do think that it's probably started a bit too
quickly. So I'm just going to go to start play again and try and catch the start of pleasure again.
So reset the begin block to the new setting and I'm playing it. That sounds okay to me.
Right block as VLOCK2.WAV. Note that you must add the extension when you write out the block.
You have to add the extension.Wave or .WAB. Okay, right. So that block is written. I'm going to
remove it. Pressing F9. Okay, now we should only have the words comes before and play. Okay, that's
fine. Now we need to insert the words the other way around. So I'm going to start. Insert from file.
It's 11. F11. Okay, now we're in the pick a file file browser. Since I know the name of the file I'm
going to press slash to search for VLOCK. We're now looking for the word pleasure which is in block 2.
So entered after I've typed it and it says block 2. Now I'm entering there. Now this part takes rather
long on small files but it doesn't increase on longer files in relation to what it's taking now.
So it always takes long to insert but it's usable. I've inserted like half hour pieces.
Okay, right. It's inserted it and it read it out to us. Pleasure comes before. So that's fine.
But there's a bit of silence at the end. So we might now either insert and I think we'll do that.
We'll first go to start. Play. Pleasure comes before. Now I stopped it. I can check where it is.
2.136. 2.136 whatever. Now I'm going to insert again using F11 for block 1. Entering on it.
So now we wait and it should at some point now come to us and tell us the word duty because it would play
from where it has inserted. It will start playing that file. And so expect to hear the word duty once
inserted. There we are. Duty and a bit of silence at the end of the file. So now what do we have?
Let's go to the start and play. Pleasure comes before duty. Right, we've got it. Now this some noisy
silence at the end. I think we need to remove it. So since we're all at the end I just press
end block. So end at the end of the silence. I can now go five seconds back by using the rewind
which is the left arrow key. And I can check. But it would actually take us to the beginning
because it's a very short sentence. There it says now at 0.0 because it's actually less than five
seconds and it brings us to the start of the file. Okay now I'm pressing play. Play. Pleasure comes
before duty. Stop. Okay I've stopped it there. Now I press the begin block. Press the begin block to
tell us to mark the beginning of that noisy silence. And now I'm just playing this noisy
silence to make sure that I haven't caught a part of the word. I just turned off speak up to be
able to hear clearly. Alright that sounds fine to me. And now I'm removing that silence pressing F9.
Okay write the silence. That silence is out. Let's go to the start again and play. Pleasure comes
before duty. Okay there is a bit of noise inside there where we've inserted the file. So let's see
if we can actually manage to take that out. Go to start. What I'm going to do is to play and just
after we're in pleasure I'm going to stop. Play. Pleasure. Stop. Okay. If you do not have to
hear it 1, 2, 5, 3, 4, 0, 5, 8, 9, 5, 6, 9, 1, 6. Play. Cut. Okay now we're 2, 4. We are now at
1, 2, 3, 4, 1, 2, 3. 1, 2, 3. Let's jump to 1.1. This is kind of guesswork. To see if we end up
before the word comes. Now I press N block now and now I'm going to turn off speak up again and play
this block. We're still called a part of come. So let me just check again. Where were we? We've
ended the block at 1.1. So let's try 0.9. Jump to 0.9. Speak up turned off. That's why we don't
hear anything now. Probably should turn it back up. And now I'm putting N block again.
1, N block at 0.9. And I'm playing the block. Okay it's just noise. I'm taking it out with
putting speak back back. I'm taking it out with F9. Remove 0.36. Okay let's go to the start and play.
Okay that's fine. And now I'm at the next spot. 1.71. We're a more begin block.
Oh yeah far to far over duty. Let's go to 2 and try that. We'd go to 2.0 basically.
Okay let's see. So jump to 1.8. Just for good measure maybe it's
now obviously you can just listen and try to press the key right at the right spot.
I usually start to do that but for such small pieces you want to mark out it's normally
easier to use the W key to find your position and the J key to jump there. Let's listen and see.
We're even now still got a bit of duty. So let's try 1.80. You can specify as many
fractional parts as you like. Let's see. I don't know if it's quite all the noise but
it's at least no words. So I'm removing this block. I've just placed play block to hear that again.
And now I'm pressing remove. Okay remove the block. Go to start. Go to start and play.
Well we can perhaps try and remove
this thing after before. Let's try this once. It's basically working already but just
do a bit more of practice. 1.55 something.
1.7 in block. Now since we have jumped to this point I can just play the rest of the fall from
where we are. It can go a bit further I think.
1.69 I think I set it to 1.7.
Okay let's jump to 1.71 and see what we get. Jump to 1.71 and then block and let's play the block
and see what we hear. Turning off speed up there was some sound there.
I think it's a begin block that's wrong. It's the end of the word before.
Okay so I'm just going to start and play.
This is very close because I'll end block the previous time.
I'm just reviewing using speak up keys.
Okay so now we sit with a situation where the end block marker is earlier than
what the begin block marker is and that would obviously not work.
So we should perhaps change the end block
slightly.
1.1.1.7.6.4.7.
And let's play. I think that's a bit too short let's try and get the begin block changed.
Jump to 1.74. Begin block and let's turn off speak up and play that block.
I think I'm going to take it out.
It might be a bit of data but I think here we go. I've pressed the removed key F9
and let's see how much we've messed up our data.
I think that's good enough and I'm now pressing Q
which takes us out of this program and I think that this concludes our little
tutorial on the use of DAE.
