Hello, I am Balaam van der Voelt and I am now going to do a little tutorial on the
program the Digital Audio Editor or DAW.
I made a pre-recording of the proverb that says, duty comes before pleasure.
So in the tutorial we will change this philosophy and we will change that audio file to say,
pleasure comes before duty.
In the process we will be using most of the keys available.
Okay, so this is what I am now done as I loaded this into DAW and it played us the file.
So what I am going to do now is I am going to go to the start of the file and I am going to mark a block containing the word duty.
Press the five for begin block.
Now I am going to play it and try and stop right after duty.
Okay, I have got duty now I press end block.
Tells us where the block ends and now I am going to play this block using F7.
Okay, just to verify that the block is correct.
Now I am going to write out this block into the file called block1.wav.
Write block at the L, O, Z, K, 1, dot, W, A.
The block starts at 0, 1, 0.
Okay, now it is busy writing.
Road block 1, dot, 1, 0, 1.
Okay, it wrote out the block.
Now I am going to remove this block from our original file and then it would just say comes before pleasure.
Remove 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0.
Okay, it is removed the block.
I am going to start and play it again.
Obviously when it is a long file you don't have to go to start.
You can go fast rewind or whatever.
Okay, it comes before pleasure.
Okay right.
So now we need to write out or mark out the second block which is the word pleasure and
write that out.
I can now check here, I'm at 1.9, I can probably jump to about 1.3 using J, it says jump to.
Just in case it might just be on the right spot, I'm pressing the begin block and now
I'm going to play, okay it wasn't at the right spot, now I'm just going to check again.
So probably at 1, jump to 1, begin block, okay so I pressed
both the begin and after the word has been spoken, I pressed the end block, I'm going
to play it now to see, I do think that it's probably started a bit too quickly, so I'm
just going to go to start, play again and try and catch the start of pleasure again, okay
so I reset the begin block to the new setting and I'm playing it, that sounds okay to me,
right block is VLOCK2.WAV, I play there which is writing the block, note that you must
add the extension when you write out the block, you have to add the extension.Wave or .WAV,
okay right so that block is written, I'm going to remove it, pressing F9, okay now we should
only have the words comes before and play, yeah okay that's fine, now we need to insert
the words the other way around, so I'm going to start, insert from file it's 11, F11, okay
now we're in the pick a file file browser, since I know the name of the file I'm going
to press slash, to search for VLOCK, we're now looking for the word pleasure which is in block 2,
so I've entered after I've started and it says block 2, now I'm entering there, now this part
takes rather long on small files but it doesn't increase on longer files in relation to what
it's taking now, so it always takes long to insert but it's usable, I've inserted
like half hour pieces, okay right it's inserted it and it read it out to us, pleasure comes before,
so that's fine, but there's a bit of silence at the end, so we might now either insert
and I think we'll do that, we'll first go to start, play, pleasure comes before, now I stopped it,
I can check what it is, 2.136 whatever and now I'm going to insert again using F11,
for block 1, entering on it, so now we wait and it should at some point now come to us and
tells us the word duty because it will play from where it has inserted, it will start playing that
file and so expect to hear the word duty once inserted, there we are, duty and a bit of silence
at the end of the file, so now what do we have, let's go to the start and play, pleasure comes
before duty, all right we've got it, now this some noisy silence at the end, I think we need to remove
it, so since we're all at the end I just press end block, so end at the end of the silence,
I can now go five seconds back by using the rewind which is the left arrow key
and I can check, but it would actually take us to the beginning because it's a very short
sentences, there it says now at 0.0 because it's actually less than five seconds and it brings
us to the start of the file, okay now I'm pressing play, okay I've stopped it there,
now I press the begin block, press the begin block to tell us to mark the beginning of that noisy
silence and now I'm just playing this noisy silence to make sure that I haven't caught a part of the
word, I just turned off speak up to be able to hear clearly, all right that sounds fine to me
and now I'm removing that silence pressing F9, okay right that silence is out, let's go to the
start again and play, okay there written noise inside there where we've inserted the file,
so let's see if we can actually manage to take that out, go to start, what I'm going to do is to
play and just after we're in pleasure I'm going to stop, okay okay now we're too far we are now at
1.3, let's jump to 1.1, this is kind of guesswork to see if we end up before the word comes,
now I press end block now and now I'm going to turn off speak up again and play this block,
we're still caught a part of come, so let me just check again where were we,
we've ended the block at 1.1, so let's try 0.9, jump to 0.9, speak up turned off that's why we don't
hear anything now probably should turn it back on and now I'm putting end block again
and I'm playing the block, okay it's just noise so I'm taking it out with putting speak back back,
I'm taking it out with F9, okay let's go to the start and play, okay that's fine and now I'm at the
next spot, 1.7, 1.8, 2.7, 6, 1.7, 1 where I'm more begin block,
oh yeah I'm far too far over duty,
let's go to 2 and try that, it would go to 2.0 basically, okay let's see,
I'm still getting a bit of a beauty, so jump to 1.8, 5 just for good measure maybe it's
now obviously you can just listen and try to press the key right at the right spot,
I usually start to do that but for such small pieces you want to mark out it's normally
easier to use the w key to find your position and the j key to jump there, let's listen and see,
we're even now still got a bit of duty, so let's try 1.80, you can specify as many
fractional parts as you like, let's see, I don't know if it's quite all the noise but
that's at least no words, so I'm removing this block, I've just placed play block to hear that
again and now I'm pressing remove, okay remove the block, go to start, okay let me turn, go to start
and play, well we can perhaps try and remove
this thing after before, let's start this once, it's basically working already but
just do a bit more of practice, 1.55 something,
1.7, now since we have jumped to this point I can just play the rest of the fall from where we are,
it can go a bit further I think, play and lock at 1.69977 32426, 1.699 I think I set it to 1.7,
okay let's jump to 1.71 and see what we get, jump to 1.71 and end block and let's play the
and see what we hear, turning off speak up, there was some sound there,
I think it's a begin block that's wrong, it's the end of the word before,
okay so I'm just going to start and play,
this is very close because I end block the previous time,
begin block at 1.76 but top, play, go to start, play block, I'm just reviewing using speak up
keys, 0.1944 play block, 0.1910 block at 1.709977 32426, okay so now we sit with a situation where the
end block marker is earlier than what the begin block marker is and that would obviously not work,
so we should perhaps change the end block
slightly,
1, begin block at 1.7647,
okay 1, 2, 1, start,
7, 7 and lock at 1.77 and let's play,
I think that's a bit too short, let's try and get the begin block changed,
jump to 1.74, begin block and let's turn off speak up and play that block,
sell something there,
I think I'm going to take it out,
might be a bit of thought about it, I think here we go, I've pressed the removed key F9
and let's see how much we've messed up our data,
I think that's good enough and I'm now pressing Q
which takes us out of this program and I think that this concludes our little tutorial on the use of
DIE,
