This is a quick how-to for using qjoypad once it's installed per the 
usual Slint install method.

That is as root:
slapt-get -u
slapt-get -install qjoypad

This program is mostly intended for gamers and thus must be run in a 
graphical environment such as Mate etc.

What it does, is to map actions on the joystick/gamepad to key presses,
so you can play games that either don't have joystick support, or the
ability to set your joystick's mapping isn't accessible.

I'm attempting to clarify for a blind or visually impaired person 
how to use this program. This howto will assume a knowledge of how to
use Orca's screen review functions, ie. the numeric keypad which will
have to be used to click some options that the tab key won't navigate
the cursor to.

So first, to start the program, the user should be in an X session, 
we'll use Mate as the example. Navigate to the Applications menu and
under games it should be one of the shortcuts you'll find. Hit enter on
that and qjoypad starts.

Also you can run it from the run dialog which is alt-f2 and typing all
or even part of it's name and hitting enter.

When the program starts, it will put an icon in the top panel and look 
for your gamepad.

Assuming it has been found and is working properly, you'll want to 
navigate to the top panel and hit enter or spacebar to bring up the 
full window. If you're using a laptop or have more then one controller
installed, you'll have to choose which one you want to configure.

Using the Orca screen review keys, you'll find panels for each
controller, joystick 1 joystick 2 etc. Left single click the one you
want to configure.

Upon first run there will be no layout so using tab you should be able
to navigate to the add layout button. Enter or spacebar will activate
it, and you'll have a standard dialog box asking you the name of the new
layout: type it and hit enter and you are back at the main screen.

Now select the new layout in the combo box and next you'll configure it.

Tab to the quick set button and hit enter on it. Hear if you move one of
the gamepad's directional controls, buttons etc. you'll be prompted for
a key to map it to. Press the desired key and you're back at the quick
set screen again.

Repeat this process until you've selected all the keys you want mapped 
to this layout, and then when done use the numeric keypad to navigate to 
and left single click the done button.

Next use the numeric keypad to find and single click the save button, 
which will give no feedback as to having saved your changes, but if all 
went well so far it has.

You can leave qjoypad open while testing the layout in your game or 
whatever other program you have configured it for until you are
satisfied, and when you want to close it to the top panel again, just 
find the close dialog button with the tab key and hit space bar and it 
will minimize to the top panel.

The program has plenty of documentation and help by running it in a 
terminal with the --help command and in the usual place under /usr/doc.
Happy gaming!

Tony Seth, 27 April 2020
